
Bill West <williamwestakabill@gmail.com>
9:43 AM (3 minutes ago)
to me

Marking the return, after a 5 year hiatus, of the Friends of Hart Park's first-rate event, it's

Silents Under the Stars!


Check in in Hart Hall. This is the event where we show one of William S. Hart's silent movies, on his former property, under the stars. Time's running out, so don't miss your chance to

get tickets at www.friendsofhartpark.com/tickets

or click the QR code on the flyer above.

We'll start off with one of Hart's short films, Bad Buck of Santa Ynez, which we've never shown at Silents before, now in Blu-ray quality.  Then we'll spin up another high-quality and renowned silent picture by another famous Santa Clarita local, Harry Carey!  It also features yet another local, the former owner of the rodeo ranch that became Saugus Speedway, Hoot Gibson!  If that weren't enough, it's directed by the premier western director of all time, John Ford.

Both movies will be accompanied live by

Ray Lowe at the Keyboard!

Like at our Silents in the past, we'll be serving delicious vittles served up by 

Rattlers BBQ 

finishing off this time with their melt-in-your mouth cheesecake.

Like before we will be holding a silent auction filled with one of a kind treasures. 

On your way into Hart Hall, you will be greeted by some of our Park animals such as alpacas, a llama, or donkey or two! 
In fact for those that arrive early -- say by 5:30 -- you can be treated to a private tour of the barnyard by our own animal keeper Rachael. Just ask when you arrive.

Before the movie, we will be featuring Western music by our favorite entertainers from 2015 and 2016 Silents,

Mild Bill and the Mild Cats.

New this year, we'll feature a pop-up Museum of

Rare William S. Hart Artifacts 

and a few of his wife Winifred Westover, and our other cowboy star, Harry Carey!  Many of these heirlooms have NEVER been viewed by the public before tonight!

All proceeds from the ticket sales benefit the park and its animals.  You won't want to miss this outstanding event, just made for fans of history, movies, music, food and fun!
