Welcome 3 new FOHP Board Members

We're thrilled to have 3 new Friends of Hart Park directors join our team.  Here's a little bit about each one:

Linda Tarnoff is a 22-year resident of Placerita Canyon who has enjoyed celebrating the culture of the West at our Cowboy Festival, the Hart of the West Pow Wow and other local events.  A long-time member of FOHP, she is also a member of the SCV Historical Society and an original member of the Gene Autry Museum.  Professionally, she's a retired deputy (31 years!) to the LA County Board of Supervisors.  She's also a photographer and writer, two skills definitely valued by FOHP.

Rudy Ortega, Jr. is the President of the Fernandeño Tataviam Band of Mission Indians, who oversees the governmental body and manages affairs pertaining to the rights of all Fernandeño Tataviam people. His ancestors come from the villages that originated in the geographical areas of Santa Clarita Valley, Simi Valley, and San Fernando Valley.  He helped establish the Tataviam Land Conservancy, and currently is a member of the Santa Clarita Watershed Recreation and Conservation Authority, Mountains Recreation and Conservation Authority, Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy appointed by Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr., and a Commission member of the Climate Emergency Mobilization Committee appointed by Mayor Eric Garcetti.

Barbara C. Myler is the President and CEO of Summit West Public Relations & Marketing, a consulting firm with decades of experience in sales, marketing, public relations, leadership.  She has a vast skill set and network which will benefit the FOHP.  Her consulting clients have included the City of Santa Clarita, Mercedes-Benz of Valencia and the Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital Foundation.  Her volunteer efforts and fund-raising have benefited the SCV Press Club, the SCV Interfaith Council and she has written for The Signal and Media One Public Access TV, among many others.

Please join us in welcoming these outstanding individuals to our board!

