



                         HORSING AROUND IN THE MUSEUM

        This will be an equestrian tour. Horse people and older

     children love these stories, and I think you will as well. 

     In the dining room, looking at Bill and Fritz, it may be fun

     to tell the story of Fritz's lineage. His great, great grandfather,

     Red Top, was given to and ridden by President Ulysses S. Grant-- 

     a present from an Arab chieftain admirer. 

        Fritz was, when Bill found him, in a herd of horses owned by the 

     old Ince movie company. Hart liked Fritz and rode him in most movies 

     even though Hart was six-foot-two, while Fritz was under fourteen

     hands (A hand is four inches, and To be a HORSE, the animal must exceed 

     this height,  thus we refer to Fritz as a pony). Sometimes when the

     camera was to be on the two of them for any length of time, Bill had 

     a hole dug in which he stood next to Fritz as the camera rolled. Thus

     Fritz appeared larger to the audience.

         Cactus Kate, the horse the wrangler depended on to buck off any

     rider and Lisbeth, the pack mule in the films, and Fritz became

     fast friends performing together and were part of the movie

     wrangler's herd until Bill bought them. One day, having 

     worked for a long while down Pear Blossom Highway, Bill

     had completed his film, but wanted a few extra takes with

     Fritz. Bill and the camera crew took Fritz about three 

     miles along the road but Fritz balked, refused to perform.

     Bill had Fritz checked over--hooves, legs, temperature,--all normal. 

     Yet Fritz still balked. Bill sent for Cactus  Kate. When she 

     arrived, things went fine and filming was done.  As the cleaning 

     up and packing was going on, Lisbeth arrived, with bad tears 





     on her chest received from the barbed wire fencing she had pushed

     through when she left the herd to find her way to join her

     friends.  From then on, Bill made it a rule to always keep the

     three together.

        Fritz was the star--even had a fan club, his name was 

     in the credits of the movies, and for a period of time had 

     two secretaries to take care of his mail. Lisbeth, the mule,

     (notice the slightly different shape in her shoes, and the

     calks on the bottom of her shoes which are to increase work power)

     was always used as a pack mule in the films. Cactus Kate 

     had one job to perform--to buck anyone off unlucky enough 

     to be assigned to ride her?

          The powder room is the place to tell stories of Bill and his 

     stage horses as there are a number of photos and props there. When

     Hart was playing the role of Messala in Ben-Hur, in every performance
 
     there was the CHARIOT RACE. It always went well, and Ben-Hur always

     won! One night Bill's horses, Tom and Jerry, two snow whites, and 

     Rosie and Topsy, two coal blacks, after over four hundred

     perfect performances, decided TONIGHT was THEIR night to

     WIN! Tonight, in Bucksport, Main, they would win! Nothing 

     Bill did to slow them down on the treadmill nor anything 

     the star, Bill Farnum, playing Ben-Hur did to speed his 

     team up helped. The race went on and on and finally it had

     to end--with the wrong chariot winning! Both Bill and the 

     star were sure their roles were finished, and they were out






     of a job.  But the applause was great--the audience had 

     enjoyed the excitement of the race and were amused at the 

     upset. So Bill, the star, Ben-Hur, Tom, and Jerry, 

     Rosie and Topsy, along with the other four horses, were still 

     able to earn a living. Bill chides himself in his book for

     only remembering one of the other four horses names--Monk. 

         On the road, in another town, again the race was on 

     and this time the horses decided they did not want to be there

     at all. They began the treadmill bit, only to run off out 

     the back stage area, through the rear wooden facade 

     of the theatre.  It took about a month to make repairs to the

     theatre before the show could resume.

        At the top of the stairs in the mansion is the wonderful

     "Wild Broncos and Timberwolves" painted in 1888 by Remington.

     Remington was asked once what would he want on his epitaph.

     His answer was: "He knew the horse."

          When young Remington drew a horse in full gallop, he depicted 

     all four feet off the ground. Many ridiculed and laughed at
     
     this until he was proved correct by an early experiment in

     film, of the running horse. For Western history buffs, Leland Stanford,

     railroad baron, former governor of California, horselover, and 

     owner of a prize Stallion named Occident, had a large bet with

     colleagues and hired Edward Muybridge, well-known photographer who

     filmed an early sequence of photographs to settle the corrundum.
         
          In the living room is Ken Spencer's and my favorite painting,

     "When the Nose of the Horse Beats the Eyes of the Man" by Charles 

     Marion Russell. This is an exciting picture to discuss with children.

     Two horses are coming down the trail, yet they have stopped.

     Because of fear, or what? Then we see--the scent of a scruffy-looking 

     grizzly bear has frightened them.  Notice the distended nostrils of the 

     horses as they catch the scent of this fearsome beast. The bear, just 

     out of hybernation in the early spring, and hungry, has found a tasty

     tidbit, little red berries still clinging to the vines of a knick knick 

      bush. Through heavy rains and snows the berries have held fast though

     most fruit in winter drops and rots on the ground. Mr. Bear has found his 

     first welcome food and is relishing his treat, unaware of a mountain man 

     and two horses. The horses are misbehaving and in so doing they are

     telling the rider of danger ahead. Is the mountain man listening to his

     horses' message? What is he reaching for? His Winchester rifle. 

     Charlie Russell has told us the whole exciting story in paint. Question:

     How do you think this encounter will end?

          You are such good listeners, I will tell you a grizzly bear story!

                    If you ever, ever, ever meet a grizzly bear,

                    You must never, never, never ask him

                    Where he is going,

                    Or what he is doing.

                    For if you ever, ever dare

                    To stop a grizzly bear,

                    You will never meet another grizzly bear!

                                                    Anonymous

           Can you guess why?

           As we enter the suite of the four rooms Bill invited guests to use,





      
      there are four James M. Flagg illustrations from Told Under a White Oak

      Tree By Bill Hart's Pinto Pony. It is fun to tell children the

      name of the book and ask them WHO is relating the stories. Sometimes you 

      will have to repeat the name several times to get the correct answer.

      Flagg's illustrations depict some of the stunts Fritz had to learn and

      Perform for the camera. This book is, according to our volunteer Lucy

      Baird, Bill's best book and I agree. However, it might need a couple of
  
      changes to be politically correct.

          Bill chose Paint, Fritz' early name, for the horse that must
   
      run into a saloon and jump through the window, a stunt never before

      done. The film crew and the wrangler ridiculed the choice. But Bill was

      sure it was right.  The next day the scene was to be shot the

      sugar (not glass) window was in place, chairs and tables ready.  The film

      crew had gone home, all were expecting high entertainment at the vain

      attempts at getting Fritz to do the big scene in the morning.  

          When all were gone, Bill went back with Fritz and a few carpentry 

      tools and began work. He removed the special window and put it aside
  
      He took the horse to the door where the scene was to start, walked him

      through the room of tables and chairs to the window. Back outside 

      the door, Bill mounted Fritz and persuaded the horse to walk in and

      to the window. Then, again, faster, and the third time he got Fritz to go

      through the empty window. Bill then covered the window with a piece of

      cheesecloth. He went outside and mounted his horse, hurried him in the

      door, through the room and through the window-the cloth falling

      around Fritz' and Bill's bodies. After returning the sugar/window to its 

      place, Bill and Fritz left for the night.





           The next morning, the film crew and actors arrived, certain they

      would enjoy a comic struggle between man and beast. Not so! the scene was

      successfully completed on the first take as Fritz and Bill went through

      the window, Bill having to rope two of the men in the saloon, and Fritz

      to drag them through the window. Lots of action, one take. Fritz' book

      adds, "two hundred people jumped and shouted in admiration."

           For the film, "The Narrow Trail", shot in Chatsworth, the next 

      painting portrays the log that Fritz, with Bill in the saddle, had to 

      traverse. He did it in the first take. But a dramatic pause in the center

      of the log was wanted with Bill as Ice Harding, outlaw, patting and

      encouraging the little pony on this dangerous walk. They fell this 

      second time into the crevasse onto rocks and boulders below. 

      After that Bill took the little pony out of motion pictures for two

      years, or fifteen pictures. 
          
            In "The Toll Gate," Fritz and Bill were to go through a long tunnel (the entrance to an outlaw cave) which had alot of water in it

      and they would be swimming against the current. At one point there was a ledge

      in Fritz' way, and a whirlpool was pulling him down. The little pony

      became very frightened and went down several times. Bill stayed with him 

      and by talking quietly, and gently turning Fritz around, they both got
 
      out safely. James Montgomery Flagg, in his illustration certainly 

      shows fear in Fritz' eyes and mouth. After this, the cave scenes were 

      cut and the horses and people all hiked over the mountain 

      to the cave exit where filming was done showing Fritz and nine other

      horses and riders exiting as though all had gone through the cave.

            In "Sand," Fritz returned to films after a long absence. Bill and Fritz jump off a cliff into

      the river while some fellow was shooting at them, Fritz took some 

      convincing by Bill about going swimming again, but Fritz and Bill, 

      did jump from the cliff into the river-all the while that feller on the

      other bank was shootin' at 'em.
 
           As our tour arrives in the last room, the dogs' room, for

       young children there are questions, "Do you know how to play hide-and-
 
       seek? And wouldn't it be fun to play hide-and-seek with a horse?" Mr Hart 

       did both. He would get on famous Fritz and, with the two dogs, Prince

       Hamlet  and Princess Galitea, walking on each side of the horse, they

       would go far from the house. Then, Mr Hart would get off Fritz and tell

       Fritz to  "Stay!" The two dogs and Mr Hart would hurry off and find a

       hiding place. Then he would call Fritz and the pony would find them.

       Fritz was always "It".

            A final item in the house of equestrian interest is the story by 

        Charlie Russell. The four watercolor pictures Russell did illustrating
 
        his story of the Boston dude who comes to see the West on his bicycle

        are great. And if you come for Deep Cleaning you may enjoy them up

        close. 

             For this Roundup of Horse Stories, I must give Sabina Miller

        credit for the title.

        Finally, Here is Charlie's story to enjoy.
            

           

      




 


